Hello everyone and welcome to the linked list and to last node solution.
OK your problem statement was to write a function that takes a head node and an integer value N and
then returns the nth to last node in the linked list.
So for example if you're given a class of no that looks something like this as we've seen before and
you were creating a singly linked list A B C D E with values 1 2 3 4 5 and then you assigned it like
this so it's all in order then your function taking in a value and the head node would then return that
to last node.
In this case 2 which means second to last and that would return the full value of 4.
So if we went ahead and check that out there it is.
All right so now let's go over the solution to this before we actually dive into this code below.
The solution goes a little something like this.
Imagine you have a bunch of notes and they block which is anodes wide.
We can walk this block all the way down the list.
And once the front of the block reached the end then the other end of the block would actually be at
the end node.
So implement this block we would just have to have two pointers left and right pair of pointers.
Again you have a bunch of nodes in a basically a straight line.
We're not worrying about cycles here.
And then you have a block which is and nodes wide which is going to be dictated by this input argument
.
So when you keep moving or walking down this block which is nodes wide all the way until it reaches
the end meaning that the other end of the block would be at the end node.
And we're going to implement this block as just two pointers are left and right pair of pointers.
So we're going to mark up the steps we need to take.
We walk one pointer and nodes from the head.
And that's going to be the right point.
Put the other pointer at the head and this will be the left point we walk or traverse through a length
list and that block as it's being walked symbole both those pointers towards the tail and the de-link
list.
One note at a time we keep a distance n between them.
So they start off separated both pointers essentially making that block of nodes and we keep moving
them one note at a time in sync together.
And once that right point has hit the tail given that we're moving in sync we know that the left point
is at the target.
OK let's go and implement this so we make sure it's really clear.
First thing I'm going to go ahead and do say DPF and I would just say nth to last node.
We taken that end value and then that head node
they're going to make two variables that left pointer and that right pointer.
And these are going to define that essentially that block that's moving along our length list.
So have a rights underscore pointer as well that starts off as that had node.
So we are going to set the right pointer and nodes away from the head.
So in a safe for I in all say x range fusing Python 3 that's just range difference between them as once
a generator ones.
Nah.
We can check for edge case in case we don't have enough nodes so will say if not right pointer the next
node.
And this basically means that we just didn't have enough nodes all raise an error in this case will
actually just raise a lookup error and I'll say
error and is larger than the linked list.
So it is good to think about edge cases as you're programming your interviewer will definitely be checking
out for those and see how aware you are about edge cases.
Again they're not your primary concern.
She should always be coding stuff out and a common strategy is to code out the basic solution and then
think about edge cases verbal.
Along with your interviewer this case this was a pretty obvious one.
So I just put it in right now.
All right.
So if we're not receiving an edge case and we do have enough notes I'll just say writes pointer is equal
to right pointer dots next node.
OK.
Essentially that block in the left and right pointer are now set up the left one starts at the head
and the right pointer has now moved and nodes away from the head.
And we're going to move that block those two pairs of pointers left pointer and right pointer down the
length list.
We're going to use a while loop to do this in a a while writes underscore pointer dot next node essentially
means while it hasn't reached the animal it's not none.
Which is why I'm able to do these if not right pointer and next node while right point turn next node
.
So I'm not putting in the comparison operations because I know that this values essentially are going
to be none.
Eventually meaning it's reached that tail.
That's why I'm able to not have to do any comparisons with that if in a while statement.
So I'm basically saying if not none are while basically it actually still exists and is not unknown
.
So all that still going on we have reached the end yet.
I'll say the left pointer is just equal to left pointer the next node.
And then I'll say right pointer Ziegel to right pointer dot next node.
So that's just moving them along together in sync.
And now we just returned the left pointer because this is going to keep executing until you've reached
the end.
So once that's done finishing executing we just say return left pointer that's going to be at the end
of the last node.
Okay that's all there is to it.
So let's make sure we run it and it all works out.
Going ahead and copy that test cell and let's run this in all test cases pass.
Excellent.
All right.
Let's go real quickly line by line and make sure we fully understand what's going on here.
I'm trying to find the nth to last node in this in the linked list and my basic strategy is going to
have a left pointer at the head and then have a right pointer that starts off and nodes away from left
essentially end nodes down the list.
So we have a block of nodes between left and right that are going to keep moving them along together
in sync with each other until the rights coiner that right and that block has reached the final node
meaning while this is actually still true in some fashion and it's not none after all that we've reached
the last node with the right pointer then we know that the left pointer is at the correct node.
It's the nth to last node in that length list and that's all there is to it.
OK.
Go ahead and code this out yourself.
Make sure you understand it.
Make sure I understand the logic of those two pair of pointers.
Moving down is a pretty common interview question when it comes to linked lists.
They should definitely know it.
All right thanks everyone.
I'll see you at the next lecture